
--- Page 0 ---
1/16 
 
John Company 2
nd Edition 
DrBo6’s Cheat Sheet: Version 13 (12/23) 
FIRST GAME SETUP 
1. Remove these cards: 
- Deregulation - Do not call a vote for deregulation until 
you are familiar with the game. 
- The “Governor General” law. 
- The “Old Ideas Made New” dilemma. 
2. Shuffle the following cards into the bottom half of the 
deck: 
- Any Dilemma laws 
- The “Foreign Invasion” India Tile 
3. Give yourself the following cards at the start: 
- Chairman 
- President of Bengal 
- President of Madras 
- Military Affairs (4 players) 
- Director of Trade (5 players) 
- President of Bombay (6p; but maybe just don't play 6p 
as your first game) 
SETUP 
1. Take out the tokens tray and the coins tray. 
2. Give players their family components: 
- Family board (Family side for most games, Firm Charter 
side for the 1813 scenario) 
- 18 family members tokens 
- Opportunity marker (glass bead) near family actions but 
not placed on any of them 
- Victory point marker 
- 5 promise cards for long-term negotiations 
- 2 firm cubes (only used for 1813 scenario or when the 
deregulation law is passed, and you have a firm) 
- 4 strategy cards (only used for 1813 scenario or when the 
deregulation law is passed, and you have a firm) 
3. Setup the game board: 
- Place families' victory point markers at 0 on the track. 
- 4 power tokens on power track. 
- Loot tokens on corresponding regions. 
- Domes with tower levels and flags cf. scenario setup 
card. 
- Cash in Office Treasuries cf. scenario setup. 
- Close orders/regiments (scenario setup card) 
- Local alliances in bottom of 3 army boxes. 
- Place the 6 pawns (values cf. the scenario setup cards 
unless specified otherwise): 
 Red: Company balance at 5 (#20 on image) 
 Red: Company standing at S (#3) 
 Red: Company debt at 0 (#4) 
 Black: Voting tracker at 0 (#22) 
 Black: Starting turn (scenario year, #6) 
 Silver: Family Action (of the Phases, #7) 
4. Select a large scenario setup card and follow its 
instructions. 
- 1710 unless you already know what you are doing. Skip 
everything highlighted in blue on this cheat sheet. 
- 1758 will introduce deregulation and other advanced 
rules. 
- 1813 has deregulation already in play and starts with a 
challenging situation. 
 Erratum: Place the +2/-2 overlay on Court of Directors. 
- Long 1710 scenario uses the 1710 setup card but play 
from turn 1 through turn 8 for an epic experience. 
5. Place the laws (shuffled), officeholder (ordered) and 
small setup cards nearby. Order the Shipyard cards. 
6. Shuffle the blackmail and prestige cards together and deal 
the top three cards to the London Display.  
- Blackmail cards stay facedown, prestige cards are flipped 
faceup in the London Display. 
7. Set the Prime Minister dial to the scenario's year. 
8. Deal the small scenario setup cards to the players or hold 
a card draft with them. 
- Remove the Extra cards with players <= 4. 
- Remove 3 random Extra cards at 5 players. 
- Give each player what is on the setup cards. 
9. Place remaining officeholder cards near the board. 
READING THE BOARD 
• #1 - Victory Point Track 
• #2 - Power Track (see terminology ref.) 
• #3 - Company Standings and Company Expectations (£s 
underneath the standings). 
• #4 - Company Debt Tracker 
• #5 - Prizes are the houses. Their cost is printed in 
purple, and their upkeep expense is printed in white on 
the left. The amount of Victory Points they add is 
printed on the right. In the middle of the card the 
depicted Windows Icons are used for Windows Taxes 
and determining order in some situations. 
• The red line is sometimes referred to as the Ribbon. It 
starts with the Turn Tracker (#6) and then goes through 
both the Phases of the game (#7) and the Offices of the 
Company (as described in Sequence of Play, #10-#16). 
The Game Board 
Note: Deregulation rules are highlighted in blue. Skip 
these until you have played some games. Bonus money 
is highlighted in green. 

--- Page 1 ---
2/16 
 
• The spots marked with £2, £3, £3, £4 and £5 are called 
the Stock Exchange (#9), it is printed above the Court 
of Directors (#10). 
• There is an Army Box on the board for Bombay (#17), 
Madras (#18) and Bengal (#19). It has a spot for a 
Commander and a top and bottom half. The top and 
bottom contain army pieces, such as Officers (family 
members), Regiments or Local Alliances. When a piece 
is in the top half, it is active. An active piece can grant its 
strength in an attack, after which it will become 
exhausted and moved to the bottom half. 
• #13 - The Officers-in-training Box is the box on the 
board that is part of the Military Affairs office (#13). 
• The Director of Trade (#11), Manager of Shipping 
(#12) and Presidency of Bombay/Bengal/Madras (#14-
16) all have an Office Treasury in their box, and the 
Presidencies also have spots for Writers in their box. 
• #20 - Company Balance  
• #21a-c – Sea Zones. #21a is the zone associated with 
Bombay, #21b is associated with Madras, and #21c is 
associated with Bengal. 
• #22 - Voting Tracker 
• The London Display (#8) will offer players a pick of 
Prestige Cards (such as additional enterprises or 
spouses) and Blackmail Cards (always face-down until 
played). 
• Whenever an Officeholder leaves office, their office is put 
in the Vacant Office Box (right of #24). When 
Officeholders retire, their corresponding family member 
token joins the Pensioners box (left of #24). 
• India (#23) has 3 Presidencies and 8 Regions. 
• The Presidencies have Bombay, Madras and Bengal as 
their Home Regions. 
• A Region has the following properties: 
- Orders: Circles with money value. Can be open or 
closed. The dotted lines between them allow players to 
create Trade Routes. 
- Home ports are Orders with thick borders within 
Bombay, Madras and Bengal, located next to their 
associated Sea zones. These are the Orders where each 
Presidency must start their trade routes when trading. 
- Export Icons (white icons resembling boxes): When the 
Superintendent of Trade in China’s Office is active, 
these icons in Delhi, Bengal (2), Hyderabad and Madras 
can generate extra money. 
- Region Strength: The tower levels (excl. the domes) 
and/or unrest cubes determine attack/defense value. 
- Regions can be Sovereign/Dominated: 
 Star Flag = Sovereign Region; Capital Region of an 
Empire 
 Small flag = Dominated region of an Empire 
 No Flag = Sovereign Region, but not in an Empire 
• Empires are indicated by flags (see 
Sovereign/Dominated) and often combine the strength 
of their regions. An Empire with a single flag loses its 
flag and is no longer an empire. 
• The Elephant indicates where the next crisis (i.e., 
Invasion or Rebellion) might happen during the Events 
in India stage. 
India 

--- Page 2 ---
3/16 
 
• Loot Tokens give extra coin to players when they 
Deploy successfully in that region for the 1st time. They 
are also used to connect a Presidency to a Region after a 
successful Deploy action. 
CONCEPTS AND COMPONENTS 
• Component/Tracker Limitations 
- Components are limited by the pieces provided, except 
for cash, Trophies, Passed Law Tokens, Dice and 
Regiments. 
- Trackers are limited, except for Company Balance, 
Victory Point and Vote Tracks. Use money to keep 
track of votes when going over/under its limits. 
• Treasuries/Cash: 
- Company/Office Treasuries: The Company Treasury is 
spread across its Office Treasuries. 
- Family Treasury is the coin a player has. 
- London Treasury is only used in a game with 
Deregulation in play. It is the treasury of a firm. 
- India Treasury is only used in a game with Deregulation 
in play. It is the money a firm has gained from trade in 
India. Every 6 cash that comes into it increases the Firm 
Value by 1. 
• Public/Hidden information: 
- Only Blackmail Cards and - if Firms are in play - 
Strategy Cards and their associated coin are ever hidden 
information. 
- Players can peek at Blackmail Cards as part of a 
negotiation or when selecting them from the London 
Display. 
• Trading and Negotiation: 
- You can transfer most assets, incl. but not limited to 
enterprises, unused facedown blackmail cards, cash in 
your family’s treasury, shares (except for the chairman), 
and promise cards between players. 
 Adjust Victory Points on the tracker when transferring 
items with Victory Points. 
 Negotiations involving immediate transfers are binding. 
All other negotiations are non-binding. 
 Transferred items cannot be activated twice in the same 
turn. 
 Promise cards cannot be used during final scoring. 
They are returned after use. 
- You cannot transfer family members (unless they are 
Shares), pieces on prizes, spouses, passed laws, played 
faceup blackmail cards, the Prime Minister dial, or 
trophies. 
• Success Checks/Make a Check: 
- Roll a d6, use the lowest rolled value. 
- 1-2 = Success 
- 3-4 = Failure; Re-rolls are allowed if funds are available 
- 5-6 = Catastrophic Failure; Return the acting 
Officeholder immediately to the player's supply. Flip 
their Office card and move it to Vacant Offices. Remove 
any Fatigue Cubes. 
• No Dead Actions Rule: A player can never take an 
action that would have no effect or chance of success. 
SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
Skip this phase entirely 1) on the first turn, and 2) on 
subsequent turns as well in the 1710 and 1813 scenarios. It 
is not printed on the Ribbon. 
• The Prime Minister 
- may call a Vote to Deregulate if the Company Standing 
and Company Debt markers are at lined spaces. 
- must call a Vote to Deregulate if the Company Standing 
or the Company Debt markers is on a star space. 
- Success/passed: 
 Lower Company Debt 1 space for every 2 debt. 
 Place the Standing Marker on the S-space. 
 The Prime Minister gains a Passed Law token. 
 Deregulation is now in play and Firms can be created. 
- Failure: Increase the Company Shares' value by either 
placing or flipping the Victory Points Overlay Token in 
the Court. 
- The Prime Minister cannot change hands in a 
Deregulation vote, it is not associated with a policy, it is 
not discarded, and the Prime Minister can vote against it. 
Skip this phase entirely on the first turn 
1. Resolve Attrition 
- Roll 1d6 for each officeholder 
- Add +1 to the result for each officeholder that has a 
Fatigue Cube 
- Add +1 to the result for the Chairman 
- Resolve results 
- 1-2: Nothing happens 
- 3-4: Add a fatigue cube to Officeholder Card 
- 5-6: Move Family Member to Pensioners, move 
Officeholder Card to Vacant Offices. 
2. Resolve Retirements 
- Start with Chairman or former Chairman if vacant 
- Retire Pensioners to Prizes (houses) by paying the purple 
£-value listed on them, keeping track of the amount of £ 
each player has spent on Prizes this turn. 
- Spouses with -£X subtract X from the Prize they buy. 
They stack but they can only be used once per London 
Season/Final Scoring. 
Special Session of Parliament 
London Season 

--- Page 3 ---
4/16 
 
- Update Victory Points track cf. acquired Prizes. 
- White £-value = upkeep costs at the end of the turn. 
- Each player with at least one Firm Share (with any Firm) 
that paid out Dividend (as indicated on the Company 
Balance tracker by a Firm Cube) is allowed to perform a 
Special Retirement: 
 They are allowed to use a piece from their Supply 
rather than from the Pensioner box. 
 They cannot exceed the value of the highest total 
dividend paid out by a Firm in which they own a share. 
3. Pick Prestige cards from London Display 
- Only players with retirees, in order of: 1) Spent the most 
on Prizes, 2) Most Windows, 3) clockwise starting with 
Prime Minster. 
- Must take one or discard one card. Allowed to peek at 
Blackmail. 
- Phase ends when there are no more cards. If there are 
cards left, discard all of them and refresh the display. 
- Update Victory Points track cf. acquired Prestige Cards 
(and do not mix up Power and Victory Points). 
4. Return Pensioners that did not receive a Prize to their 
Supply. 
1. Each player selects a Family Action. (Chairman 1st, 
clockwise) 
- There are three ways to get extra actions: 
 Check for any laws that have "Extra Actions". Only the 
most recently passed law with an "Extra Action" can be 
used, if any. Do not reposition your marker. 
 If there are 4 or more vacant offices, you may place 2 
writers instead of 1 if you choose to Enlist a Writer. 
 If you pick the same action that you picked last turn, 
you get to do it twice. 
- Pick from the following list: 
 Enlist Writer: Place 1 family member in one of the 
Writer spots (attached to each of the 3 Presidencies). 
 Enlist Officer: Place 1 family member in the Officers-
In-Training spot (attached to the Military Affairs 
office.) 
 Purchase Luxury: Pay £4 and take a luxury card. Adjust 
Victory Points. 
 Purchase Shipyard: Pay £2 and take a Shipyard card 
and the corresponding ship token. Place the ship token 
on the card. 
 Purchase Workshop: Pay £5 and take a Workshop 
card. 
 Seek Share: Place a family member on any empty 
space on the Stock Exchange Track (above the Court 
of Directors) and pay the corresponding £-value. 
2. After all actions have been chosen, new company 
shares are created. 
- If Firms are in play, flip any face-down Shares in the 
Court of Directors face-up. 
- While the company has debt, move the debt marker one 
spot to the left and add the right-most family member 
from the Stock Exchange Track onto the Board of 
Directors. 
- If Firms are in play, flip any new Shares in the Court of 
Directors face-down. 
- Once the company has no more debt, move any 
remaining family members as far to the right as possible 
while preserving their order. 
If the Deregulation Law is not active, skip this phase 
entirely. 
1. Make Firm Investments 
- Take any of the following actions in any order (while 
respecting the limitations below): 
 Form a Firm: Return a Family Share to the Supplies 
OR flip a workshop to the invested side. Next, flip the 
Family Board to the Firm Charter Side and Place a 
Family Member in its Shares Box. Place one of your 
Firm Cubes on the left-most space of the Value track 
and add £5 from the bank to the Firm's London 
Treasury. 
 Invest in a Firm: If a Firm's Manager (owning player) 
consents, players may invest in a firm by 
o Removing one of their Company Shares back to 
their Supply OR flipping one of their Workshops to 
its Invested side. 
• Company Shares can only be used for formations 
and investments if 
- Company Standing is not on a lined space 
- The company share was not created in the most 
recent Family Phase (and flipped face-down). 
o Adding £5 from the bank to its London Treasury 
AND 2) placing one of their family members in the 
Shares Box. 
o Investment Limits: Firms can have only 10 Shares, 
but they can always accept more investments without 
generating shares. 
 Fit an Unfitted Ship: Pay £3 from the London 
Treasury to fit a Ship from a Shipyard with its owner's 
consent to the Ships box on the Firm Charter Board. 
 Buyback a Player Ship in service of the Company: 
Transfer £3/£2 from the London Treasury to the 
Director of Shipping Office’s Treasury to move a 
unfatigued/fatigued fitted Ship with its owner's consent 
Family 
Firms 

--- Page 4 ---
5/16 
 
from its Sea space to the Ships box on the Firm 
Charter Board. 
 Perform a Hostile Takeover: If you do not manage a 
firm and you have consent of the players that hold the 
majority of a firm's shares, you may perform a hostile 
takeover. Copy the state of that Firm with your own 
components while the original Firm's player reverts his 
board back to the Family side. 
o The owner can still invest to regain majority and 
cancel the takeover. 
 Negotiate a Merger: If all involved firms have full 
consent of every shareholder, multiple firms can 
consolidate their assets into a single firm and become 
regular families again. The single resulting firm has to 
have the highest value of all involved firms. 
2. Set Firm Strategies 
- Secretly play your Firm Strategy Card face-down. 
 These determine what sea zone your ships will be 
trading in. 
 The Hob-Nob strategy does not let you trade but 
allows you to keep the Dividend score from the last 
time you traded. 
- Secretly set aside an amount of money (bid) that you will 
allocate to trading - e.g., hold it in your fist or cover it 
with your hand. 
- When everyone has played their card and allocated their 
money, reveal the results and put them in the assigned 
spots of the Firm Charter Board. 
• The Firm manager resolves internal timing conflicts, the 
Prime Minister external ones 
Skip if there are no vacant offices. 
• During this phase, Fill all vacant Offices using the 
guidelines on the back of each card, in the order printed 
on them, using the following rules: 
- Nepotism: You may select your own family member, but 
you must have the consent of every other player in that 
office’s candidate pool (which could be just yourself). 
This does not apply to hiring the Chairman. 
- Promotions: Some higher offices are hired from lower 
offices. 
 When this happens, add the lower office's card to the 
stack of vacant offices. 
 Carry any fatigure tokens over from the lower office to 
the higher office. 
- If there are no candidates or hirer, then the Office 
remains vacant throughout the turn and no actions are 
taken for it. 
- Players cannot refuse an Office when their family 
member is appointed to it. 
- If there is a valid candidate, then they must be hired. A 
candidate that would fall under the nepotism rule and 
that does not have consent, is not considered a valid 
candidate. 
• The Chairman Election is unique: 
- Every Company Share is a vote; needs more than half of 
total. 
- If no candidate receives enough support, the former 
Chairman picks any player with a Company Share 
(including themselves) and gets to ignore the Nepotism 
rule. 
- If the Court of Directors is empty, then the former 
Chairman becomes Chairman again. 
- The Company Share that becomes Chairman still counts 
as a Company Share but cannot be traded or used for 
investments (when Firms are in play). 
• A Commander is not an Officer and cannot be 
promoted to Governor. 
1. Set the debt marker 
- Each advance = £5 for the Company Balance 
- More than 3 advances require majority vote in Court of 
Directors (incl. Chairman). 
- You cannot advance the debt marker beyond the right-
most spot. 
2. Must allocate all funds in the Balance. (See expectations 
under Company Standing.) 
- Move funds from the Company Balance into the 
Company Treasuries (Director of Trade or Governor 
General, Director of Shipping and the 3 Presidencies) 
until none is left. 
Resolve Director of Trade if the Governor General is not in 
play. Otherwise, resolve Governor General instead. 
Director of Trade 
1. May send Special Envoys 
- Make a check, 1 die per £1 
- Success, choose: 
 Place the Superintendent of Trade in China board and 
add the card to the Vacant Offices. Hire immediately. 
 Open an order in any region that is not company-
controlled. 
2. May make up to Two Transfers: Move In each, move 
one Writer/Ship to one Presidency/Sea Zone. 
Governor General 
1. Must increase the Balance by £3 for every Company-
Controlled Region. 
Hiring 
Chairman’s Office 
Director of Trade / Governor General 

--- Page 5 ---
6/16 
 
2. Govern - You may attempt this any number of times, but 
you may only do it once successfully. 
- Make a check, 1 die per £1 
- Success:  
 Receive a £1 bonus for each Company-Controlled 
Region. 
 For each Company-controlled region, you must choose 
one of the following: 
o Place a Company Ship in any Sea zone 
• Unlike the Director of Trade, a Governor General 
cannot Transfer fitted Ships (or Writers) 
o Place a Regiment in any Army 
o Tax: 
1. Increase either the Company Balance or any 
Company Treasury except your own by £2. 
2. Place an unrest in a Company-controlled region. If 
you make this choice multiple times in a single 
turn, you must place the unrest in a different region 
for each. 
- Failure: Place 1 unrest in each Company-controlled 
region 
- For each 6 rolled: Place 1 unrest in each Company-
controlled region 
• Must purchase ships until there is £2 or less left in its 
Treasury. 
- Can always perform the following actions: 
 Fit Shipyard Ships: £3, move ship from shipyard to any 
sea zone (incl. China). This does not require owner 
consent. 
 Lease Extra Ships: £2, extra ship to any sea 
- Can only perform the following actions when there are 
no ships on shipyards: 
 Buy Company Ships: £5, company ship to any sea 
1. Army Transfers (up to 2x): May move Officer/Regiment 
between Armies' top halves 
2. Must assign all Officers-in-Training to any Army box's top 
half 
3. Update Commanders: 
- If a player has more total pieces than the current 
Commander's players, swap one of that player's Officers 
in the top half of the Army box with the current 
Commander 
- If the commander slot is vacant, fill it with an Officer of 
player with the most pieces in the Army box. 
- Since this is not a Hiring, the Nepotism rule does not 
apply. 
1. Firm Strategy Declarations: If Firms are in play, the 
President (or Chairman if vacant) asks if there are any 
Firms who have selected a strategy associated with the 
current Presidency’s Sea Zone. If so, those Firms follow 
these steps: 
- Reveal the Strategy Card 
- Make a check, dice = allocated cash (The President's 
check includes a dice penalty for non-home regions, but 
the firms do not have to include that.) 
 You only get one chance to roll a success 
 You must make the check and pay, even if the Region’s 
Home port is closed. 
- Success: The Firm may perform a Trade action during 
this Presidency Operations phase with initiative = total 
ships - amount of successes 
2. The President must decide the order in which a) any 
Firms and themselves, b) their Governors and c) their 
Commanders perform their respective Actions. 
- If the President's Office is vacant: 
 The Chairman decides the order or breaks ties in their 
stead, but they do not get to Approve Alliances (during 
the Commander's Actions) or take the President's 
Trade Action. 
 Firms will take their Trade Actions (see below) either 
1) during the President’s successful Trade Action, or 2) 
after the Governor and Commander have had the 
chance to take Actions. 
President of Region (and Firms) 
• Trade Routes start from and include a Presidency's 
Open Home Port and continue through any Open or 
Previously-Filled orders connected to each other by 
dotted lines. You may branch in two directions from an 
Order, but the following limitations apply: 
- Limitations: 
 Trade Routes cannot include Previously-Filled Orders 
created in a previous turn. (Use the Red Divider 
Tokens to separate new Trade Routes being filled from 
Trade Routes created in previous turns.) 
 A President's Trade Route can also not include Orders 
in another Presidency's Home Region. 
- Number of Orders: 
 As a President: Number of Orders = Number of Ships 
in the Home Port's Sea region 
 As a Firm: Amount of Orders = Amount of Ships on 
the Firm Charter Board + 1 
- Total £-value: 
 The total £-value of a Trade Route is calculated based 
on whether its Orders were Open or Previously-Filled 
Director of Shipping 
Military Affairs 
Presidency Operations 

--- Page 6 ---
7/16 
 
by another Trade Route, before the new Trade Route 
passes through it: 
o For each Open Order: Add full listed £-value to the 
Trade's Route total £-value. 
o For each Previously-Filled Order: Add ½ £-value, 
rounded down (which is printed on the board next to 
the order). 
• Resolving the Trade Action: 
- If the President wants to take their Trade action, make a 
check at £1 per die and subtract 1 die per non-Home 
Region in their intended Trade Route. 
 Success: The President may perform a Trade. 
o If Firms are in play, the President's Initiative is ships 
in the sea region - amount of successes. 
 Non-catastrophic Failure: The President may try this 
again. 
 If the President does not or cannot trade, Firms trade 
after the Governor and Commander have had a chance 
to act. 
- Trade Actions are completed with lowest initiative going 
first. Ties are broken by 1) President, 2) Chairman. 
 As a President: 
1. Fill your Trade Route (Max Orders = Number of 
Ships). Place Writers in from the Presidency box 
first, then use Filled Order Tokens. 
2. When filling an Order next to an Order that was 
filled during a previous turn, put a Red Presidency 
Divider Token on the dotted line between then. 
3. Add the total £-value of the Trade Route to the 
Company Balance (counting ½, rounded down for 
Orders previously filled by Firms this turn). 
4. Presidents receive a £1 bonus for each filled order of 
their Trade Route. 
5. Writers (not Filled Order Tokens) receive a £1 
bonus for each Order they fill on the Trade Route. 
 As a Firm: 
1. Fill your Trade Route using only use Filled Order 
Tokens. 
2. When filling an Order next to an Order that was 
filled during a previous turn, put a Red Presidency 
Divider Token on the dotted line between then. 
3. Add the total £-value of the Trade Route to the India 
Treasury on your Firm Charter Board. 
4. For every £6 added to the India Treasury, advance 
the Firm's Value Marker one space. 
Commander 
1. May request Local Alliance funding from your President: 
If consent is given, move the purchased Local Alliance 
pieces to the top half of the Army Box. 
2. Deploy Action (as many times as you wish and can 
afford, including zero). 
1. Select a target (either not company-controlled or having 
a closed order/unrest): 
 Your President's Home Region 
 Any Region associated with your Presidency 
 Any Region bordering a Region associated with your 
Presidency 
2. Make a check; number of dice = number of 
Officers/Regiments you Exhaust - region strength 
 Exhaust = move to the bottom half of the army box 
 Empires includes all their Regions in their strength 
 Company-Controlled Regions have 0 base strength 
 Can re-try the check if no catastrophic failure 
3. Check for Losses: d6 for each Exhausted Officer, return 
to supply on 6s. 
4. Success: Loot the Region and make it Company-
Controlled 
 Calculate Loot: Amount = (Tower Levels * £4) + 
faceup Loot Token Modifier (unless this is less 
than Amount of Exhausted yet Surviving Officers + 1, 
in which case increase the amount by the difference.) 
 Distribute the Loot among those that participated and 
survived. 
1. The Commander receives £1 bonus. 
2. Each Surviving Officer (clockwise from Commander) 
gets £1 bonus.  
3. Pay £1 to the bank for each Regiment and Local 
Alliance 
4. Continue and Repeat until the entire Loot sum has 
been allocated. 
 The Commander's player gets 1 Trophy per level of 
the Targeted Region's Tower. 
 Remove the Towers and Flags 
 Open all Orders and remove any Unrest 
 Move any Region Loot Token to the President's Box 
Faceup; this Region is now associated with this 
Presidency. 
 If there is no Governor General in place, place the 
Governor Overlay in the Region and put the matching 
Governor Officeholder Card into Vacant Offices. 
 If the Elephant was in the Invaded Region and faced 
another Region, put it in the center of the invaded 
Region. 
5. Catastrophic Failure: Return your Commander and half 
(rounding up) of your Family's Trophies. 
Governor 
Skip this if there is a Governor General 
 May Administer 
1. Create a dice pool = number of your Office Card. 
2. Make a check, remaining dice in the pool 
3. Success: Receive a £1 bonus, an additional £1 bonus if 
you failed your previous roll, and choose: 

--- Page 7 ---
8/16 
 
 Build Company Ship and place it in your Region (on 
land). 
 Move a Company Ship already in your Region into the 
Sea Zone associated with your Presidency. 
 Place a Regiment in the top half of your Army Box. 
 Tax: Add £2 to either the Company Balance or your 
President's Treasury. 
o Do not split this amount. 
o Each time you choose this after your first time this 
turn, add one Unrest Cube to the Region. 
4. Failure: Add an Unrest Cube to the Region. 
5. Lower the number of dice in the pool by 1. 
6. Until your run out of dice (or roll a catastrophic failure), 
you may go back to step 2 and roll the remaining pool 
to administer again. 
• This Office acts after the Presidency of Bengal, after it 
has been created. 
• Ships in this zone count as if they were in the Eastern 
Sea zone. 
• May Trade in China: 
- Make a check, 1 die per ship, only one attempt, can only 
be attempted if there are Export Icons in Company-
Controlled Regions. 
- Success: 
1. Increase the Company Balance by £4 for each Export 
Icon in all Company-Controlled Regions. 
2. Receive a £1 bonus from the bank for each Export Icon 
in all Company-Controlled Regions. 
• Take £1 for each shipyard with a fitted ship 
• Take £1 for each workshop. 
1. Pay Firms Expenses and Dividends by initiative order 
with ties broken by 1) Windows on cards and prizes, 2) 
clockwise and starting with Prime Minster. 
- Pay Firm Expenses from London or India Treasury: 
1. Pay £1 for each Ship 
2. Pay £1 for whichever is higher: Amount of Shares in 
Firm Share Box or Firm Value 
3. If the Expenses cannot be paid, consider the following 
options: 
o Emergency Investments (following the Firm 
Investment rules described under Firms). 
• Any cash remaining after paying the expenses is lost. 
• Lower the Firm's value by 1 for each Emergency 
Investment 
• You can still take Emergency Investments at the left-
most value. 
o Emergency Mergers (following the Firm Merger 
rules described under Firms): 
• The other Firm must first pay their own expenses. 
• The other Firm must then pay any outstanding 
expenses owed by the Firm that cannot pay their 
own expenses. 
4. Dissolve the Firm in Expenses cannot be paid. 
o Move Shares to the Debtor's Prison Box of the 
Deregulation Card. 
o Return Firm Ships to their Shipyards 
o Flip the Firm Charter Board to its Family Side, and 
leave the Workshops as Invested. 
- Pay Firm Dividends from India Treasury only: 
1. A dividend = £1 to each Firm Share and £1 for the 
Firm Manager/Owner. 
o Dividends must be paid out as a whole, but players 
can choose to forgo their share of a Dividend to allow 
for the entire India Treasury to be paid out (see 
example p. 42) 
o A Firm that pays a Dividend is allowed to perform a 
Special Retirement during London Season. 
2. Record the total amount of cash paid out in 
Dividends by placing the second Firm Cube on the 
Company Balance Track. 
o Hob-Nob Strategy Firms leave their Firm Cube 
where it was and do not reset to zero. 
3. Cash remaining in the India Treasury is moved to the 
London Treasury 
2. Pay Company Expenses: Subtract £1 from the Company 
Balance for 1) each debt, 2) each Regiment in an Army 
Box (not for Local Alliances), 3) each Officer (not the 
Commanders) in an Army Box, and 4) each Ship in a 
Sea Zone (including China). 
- If needed, take Emergency Loans, which do not add to 
your debt expense this turn. 
1. Increase the Debt marker by 1 and adding £5 to the 
Company Balance when you cannot pay your 
expenses 
2. Set the Company Balance to zero after all expenses 
are paid if you have taken Emergency Loans 
3. If 1-2 Emergency Loans were taken: Lower Company 
Standing by 1. 
4. If 3+ Emergency Loans were taken: Lower Company 
Standing by 2. 
- If the Company Standing Marker reaches the left-most 
space, the Company has failed. Immediately go to Final 
Scoring. 
Superintendent of China 
Bonuses 
Revenue 

--- Page 8 ---
9/16 
 
- Unlike the Chairman’s first action, you can still take 
more Emergency Loans when the debt marker is at the 
right-most spot. 
3. Check Expectations by lowering the Company Standing 
by 1 if the Company Balance is less than the 
expectations. 
- If the Company Standing Marker reaches the left-most 
space, the Company has failed. Immediately go to Final 
Scoring. 
4. The Chairman may Pay Dividends: 
- A dividend = number of Company Shares (incl. 
Chairman's), hence each player receives £1 for each of 
their Company Shares. 
- The Chairman may pay out multiple Dividends, but they 
cannot pay out a partial one. 
- If the total cash paid in Dividends was more than the 
Expectations, advance the Company Standing by 1. 
1. Roll and resolve the storm die 
- Roll a die for each Non-Company/Non-Extra Ship in the 
rolled sea zone(s), including Firm Ships with Strategy 
Cards that match the sea zones. 3 Storms = all Sea 
Zones. 
 1-2: Nothing happens 
 3-4: Flip Non-Fatigued Ship to Fatigued side. Return 
Fatigued Ship to the Shipyard. 
 5-6: Return the Ship to the Shipyard. 
2. Resolve events equals to the die number: 
- Flip a tile from the Face-Down India tile Draw Stack to 
the Face-Up India Drawn Stack 
 Resolve the event 
o Turmoil: 
• Close Northernmost Open Order in the Location at 
the top of the Draw Stack. Check for 
Cascades/Writer’s Loss. 
o Windfall: 
• Each player takes £1 from the bank for each writer 
in the Location at the top of the Draw Stack and 
Regions adjacent to it. 
o Shuffle: 
• If the Draw Stack is not empty, perform Elephant's 
March 
• Shuffle this tile with the Draw Stack. 
• Shuffle the Drawn/Discard Stack. 
• Put the shuffled Drawn/Discard Stack on top of the 
shuffled Draw Stack. 
• If you did not perform an Elephant's March in step 
1, perform an Elephant's March now. 
o Leader: 
• If the Location at the top of the Draw Stack is 
Sovereign (star flag or no flag) then add a Tower 
Level to the Location at the top of the Draw Stack. 
• If the Location at the top of the Draw Stack is not 
Sovereign, resolve a Rebellion in the Location at the 
top of the Draw Stack with a strength modifier equal 
to the tile. 
• If the Elephant was fully in the Location at the top 
of the Draw Stack, and the Location at the top of 
the Draw Stack was Company-Controlled, and the 
Rebellion was successful, then perform an 
Elephant's March. 
o Peace: 
• If the Elephant is on a border: 
1. Open any Orders connected to the Border the 
Elephant stands on. 
2. Add on Tower Level to each Non-Company-
Controlled Region touching the Elephant. 
• If the Elephant is wholly in a Region: 
1. Open all Orders and remove all Unrest Cubes in 
the Elephant's Region. 
2. Perform the Elephant's March. 
o Crisis: 
• If Elephant's Tail in Sovereign Region: Resolve 
Invasion. 
• Otherwise: Rebellion 
o Foreign Invasion: 
• Roll the storm die 
• If Storms were rolled: Resolve an Invasion in each 
Region linked to a rolled Sea Storm through a port. 
- Roll a d6 to determine the Invasion strength 
- Successful Invasion: 
1. Perform all usual Invasion steps 
2. Close every open Order in the invaded Region, 
check for Cascades/Writer’s Loss. (This will 
always Cascade in a Company-dominated 
Region due to the Region Loss.) 
3. Turn the Region into Sovereign, no-flag dome, 
with strength set to half the Invasion Strength, 
rounded down. 
4. If the Invaded Region was a Capital Region, 
remove all flags of the Empire. 
5. If the Invaded Region was Company-Controlled 
with the Elephant inside of it, perform an 
Elephant's March with a Circle symbol for the 
shape. 
• If no Storms were rolled: Resolve an Invasion in the 
Location at the top of the Draw Stack 
Events in India 

--- Page 9 ---
10/16 
 
 If you have not resolved as many events as the number 
rolled on the storm die, repeat from step 1. 
India Actions Explained 
• Invasion: 
1. Calculate the Attacker's (Elephant's Tail Region) 
Strength, adding the following: 
 Region Strength 
 Add modifier on the tile's event 
 If Capital Region (Star Flag): Add the Strength of all 
Regions with a small flag of the same color 
 If Company Defender: add 1 for every Unrest Cube in 
this Region 
2. Calculate the Defender's (Elephant's Head Region) 
Strength 
 Non-Company Defender: Tower Level 
 Company Defender: 
o The Commander sets Strength in the same way as 
during a Deploy action (exhausting pieces in the 
Army Boxes). 
o If the Commander is vacant, then 1) Military Affairs, 
2) Chairman makes the decisions; players do not gain 
or lose trophies in this case. 
3. If Attacker Strength > Defender Strength: Resolve 
Successful Invasion 
 If Non-Company Defender: 
1. If the Attacker does not have a flag and there are still 
flags remaining, it gains a star flag 
2. Remove any flag on a Defending Region 
3. If the Defending region had a Star Flag, remove it 
and all flags of that color. 
4. If there are still flags remaining, place a flag of the 
Attacker's Color on defending region's dome 
 If Company Defender: Perform Region Loss 
4. If Attacker Strength <= Defender Strength: Resolve 
Failed Invasion 
 Remove one Tower Level from the Attacker 
(regardless of Company/Non-Company Defender) 
 If Company Defender: 
o Remove all Unrest Cubes in the Attacked Region 
o The Commander associated with the region gains a 
trophy token 
5. If this was an Attack on the Company, resolve a 
Rebellion in each other Region with an Unrest Cube, in 
order of Presidencies (starting with Bombay) 
 Same procedure as a regular Rebellion, but the 
Attacker's Strength is equal to each Unrest Cube, 
nothing else 
6.  Perform an Elephant’s March. 
• Rebellion: 
1. Calculate the Attacker's (Dominated Region) Strength 
 Region Strength (Tower Level) 
 Add modifier on the tile's event 
 If attacking the Company, add 1 for every Unrest Cube 
in the Region 
2. Calculate the Defender's (Sovereign Region) Strength 
 If Non-Company Defender: 
o Only Region Strength (Tower Level) 
o Do not include other Dominated Regions in the 
Empire as you would in an invasion. 
 If Company Defender: 
o The Commander sets Strength in the same way as 
during a Deploy action (exhausting pieces in the 
Army Boxes). 
o If the Commander is vacant, then 1) Military Affairs, 
2) Chairman makes the decisions; players do not gain 
or lose trophies in this case. 
3. If Attacker Strength > Defender Strength: Resolve 
Successful Rebellion 
 Non-Company Defender: 
o Return the Attacker's flag to the supply. 
o Close every open Order in the Attacker's Region, 
check for Cascades/Writer’s Loss. 
 Company Defender: Perform Region Loss 
4. If Attacker Strength <= Defender Strength: Resolve 
Failed Rebellion 
 If Non-Company Defender: Remove one Tower Level 
from the Attacker 
 If Company Defender: 
o Remove all Unrest Cubes in the Attacked Region 
o The Commander associated with the region gains a 
single trophy token 
5. If this was an Attack on the Company, resolve a 
Rebellion in each other Region with an Unrest Cube, in 
order of Presidencies (starting with Bombay) 
 Same procedure as a regular Rebellion, but the 
Attacker's Strength is equal to each Unrest Cube, 
nothing else 
6. Perform an Elephant’s March. 
• Region loss: 
1. The Commander of the Army associated with the lost 
Region return half (rounded up) of its Family's Trophies 
2. Return the Commander to the supply 
3. Roll a d6 for every Officer in the Army and remove 
them on 6s 
4. Remove any Local Governors (card to Vacant Offices, 
Family Member to supply, any fatigue to the supply, 
remove the Governor Overlay). Skip this step if there is 
a Governor General. 
5. Remove any Company Ships. 
6. Remove any Unrest Cubes. 

--- Page 10 ---
11/16 
 
7. Place a Dome with Tower Level 1, add a flag if this was 
an invasion. 
8. Return the Loot Token for the Region facedown. 
9. Close every open Order in the Region, check for 
Cascades/Writer’s Loss 
10. Lower the Company Standing by 1 to the left for each 
Region lost this turn (including this one). (I.e,. 1st loss 
= 1, 2nd loss = 2, etc.) 
11. If Company Failure is caused by step 10, the game is 
over. Resolve Final Scoring. 
• Writer's loss: When closing an Order with a Writer, 
return the Writer back to the supply. 
• Cascades are performed when you need to close an 
Order in a Region, but all Orders are already closed. 
1. Close all Orders connected to the Orders in the 
Cascading Region.  
 Orders that branch out into >1 connections do require 
>1 Orders to be closed. 
2. If a connected Order is already closed: 
 If the Region has any Open Orders, close the 
Northernmost Open Order in that Region instead. 
 If the Region has no Open Orders, trigger an 
additional Cascade. 
- Each Region can only Cascade once during one Event 
Tile. 
• Elephant's March: 
1. Check for “Imperial Ambitions” by doing the following: 
 After a Successful Invasion, the Elephant is moved to 
the Successful Capital's Region. 
 Otherwise, move the Elephant to the Region on top of 
the Draw Stack. 
2. Determine new Elephant Position: 
 Company-Controlled Region: Center of the Region. 
 Dominated Region: Border of the Region facing its 
current Sovereign. 
 Sovereign Region: 
1. Place the Elephant on the border matching the shape 
printed on the tile (circle, triangle, square), facing that 
region. 
2. If the Elephant faces a region that is already 
dominated by the Capital Region, use the first 
clockwise Region. 
3. If all Regions surrounding the Elephant's Regio are 
dominated, place the Elephant on the border 
matching the shape on the Elephant redirect arrow 
and position it so that it is pointing at the Empire’s 
capital. 
• The Prime Minister looks at up to 3 law cards, one by 
one, but must choose any Dilemma that presents itself 
immediately. The remaining cards is Discarded. 
• The Prime Minster sets the policy by rotating the dial 
(in either direction) and stopping at the first space that 
matches the icon printed on the bottom of the law card. 
• The Prime Minster reads the text of the law aloud and 
marks its starting support on the voting tracker. 
• Starting with the Prime Minister, players take turns 
voting. 
- Voting is done with cards and cash: 
 Players can buy votes for £1 each from their Family 
Treasury 
 Any card in their play area with votes adds votes as 
well. (Rotate the card to show they have been used.) 
- If votes go beyond the limits of the tracker, use coins to 
track additional votes. 
- Once a player votes against, they can no longer vote for, 
and they become part of the opposition. 
 Keep track of which opposition member cast the most 
votes. 
 The opposition member with the most votes becomes 
opposition leader (and takes the token). Ties stay with 
the previous leader. 
 Players may cast votes on behalf of another player with 
that player's consent, and these votes are added towards 
opposition leadership (as the opposition leader 
becomes president on a failed vote). 
- A player who voted for can later decide to vote against. 
- The Prime Minister cannot vote against the current law 
or consent to their enterprises to be used against, but 
their promise note can override this. 
• After all players have had a chance to vote, the Prime 
Minister can decide to call another round or stop and 
resolve the vote. 
- If no votes cast: the vote must be resolved. 
• Resolving the vote: 
- Less than 0 votes = Failure 
 Discard the law, resolve "If Failed" effects 
 Opposition leader loses that token and becomes new 
Prime Minister 
 The new Prime Minister moves the policy on the dial 
to an adjacent policy. 
- 0 or more votes = Success 
 Place the Law in the passed laws and activate it. 
o Governor General law: 
• Remove all Governor overlays 
• Place the Governor General overlay on the Director 
of Trade.  
Parliament Meets 

--- Page 11 ---
12/16 
 
• Replace Director of Trade card with  Governor 
General, transfer fatigue. 
 The Prime Minister receives a Passed Law Token. 
• Resolve the policy effect 
- Tax: Pay £1 for each depicted target owned, return the 
target to the supply if you cannot pay. 
 Fitted ships stay in play but the Shipyards are returned 
and can no longer be bought. 
 Window Tax: £1 for each Window on a prize with a 
family member, and each Window on an enterprise. 
Return them if you cannot pay. 
- Bonus: Gain £1 for each target 
- Power: Swap the position of the Power marker matching 
the target with the next higher Power marker. If the 
target’s Power marker is already in the highest position, 
swap the position of any two other Power markers. 
• Return any cards used for voting to their regular 
orientation 
• If the Company fails at any point during this phase, 
resolve the vote and move to Final Scoring. 
• Pay for family members on prizes (the £ to the right of 
the Prize's cost). 
• Return family members whose prize's expenses cannot 
be paid to the Supply and adjust the Victory Marker 
correspondingly. 
• Prepare the Board for the next turn or go to Final 
Scoring 
- Return writers to their Presidencies 
- Return Filled Order Tokens and Presidency Dividers to 
the Supply 
- Return all Extra Ships to the Supply 
- Re-activate Exhausted Officers, Regiments 
- Exhaust any Active Local Alliances 
- Advance the Turn Marker and Proceed with the first 
Phase 
GAME END 
• End the game if the following occurs (but finish the 
India phase if it triggers during): 
- Company Survival: End after completing the turn prior 
to the year printed on the turn tracker 
- Company Failure: Company Standing on left-most space 
• No more negotiations, promise cards or blackmail cards 
can be played (unless a card explicitly allows it) 
• Final scoring 
- If there are Firms in place, resolve the following, 
regardless of Company Success: 
 Score or lose the number of Victory Points indicated 
by the Firm's Value for each Firm Share Own or each 
family piece in Debtor’s Prison (Rounded Down). 
 Perform one Special Retirement (see London Season, 
resolve Retirements). 
- Allocate Victory Points based on Power using the 
printed Game End Scoring box next to the Power 
Tracker. Calculate Power as follows: 
 Power Track points for each enterprise/Company 
Share (2 Power for first, 1 Power for second, 0 Power 
for others) + Prime Minister + Passed Law Tokens 
points + some Blackmail cards (face-down or up) 
points + some Spouse cards points + Trophies points 
 Tied 1st place grants lower value to tied players 
 Tied 2nd place grants nothing 
- Company Survival:  
 Score Court: +X VP as depicted on the board (or on 
the overlay) for each share. 
 Final Retirement = final Attrition and Retire rolls for all 
officeholders, purchase final prizes 
- Company Failure:  
 Score Court: -X VP as depicted on the board (or on 
the overlay) for each share. 
 +1 VP for each Workshop. 
 Consequence of Failure = Draw Consequence of 
Failure card and resolve it 
TERMINOLOGY REFERENCE 
• 4+ Vacancies: Whenever 4 Offices have no family 
member attached to them. 
• Attacks: The Company can attack a region through a 
Commander's Deploy action. The Company can also 
be attacked through Events in India. 
• Army (Box): There is an army box on the board for 
Bombay, Madras and Bengal. It has a spot for a 
Commander and a top and bottom half. The top and 
bottom contain army pieces, such as Officers (family 
members), Regiments or Local Alliances. Pieces in the 
top half are active, the bottoms ones are exhausted. 
• Balance: The Company Balance track at the bottom of 
the board. 
• Bonus: Either refers to the Bonus phase or times when 
players receive extra income during their actions. (E.g., 
the President receives a bonus of £1 for each filled 
order) Bonuses are usually printed in green in the 
rulebook/highlighted in green in this document and are 
paid to the Family Treasury. Note that money generated 
during the Bonus Stage through Shipyards and 
Workshops is not an “Officeholder’s Bonus”. 
• Capital Region: A capital region is marked by a flag with 
a star. It has a least one dominated region that is 
Upkeep and Refresh 

--- Page 12 ---
13/16 
 
marked by a smaller flag of the same metal without a 
star. If it does not have a dominated region, return the 
flag with a star to the supply. A capital region also 
counts as a sovereign region. The capital region and its 
dominated regions together form an empire. 
• Company-Controlled: A region in India that doesn't 
have a tower/dome (revealing the heart-like Company 
logo) is Company-Controlled. If the Governor General 
is not in play, it is also indicated by the presence of a 
Governor Overlay chit. 
• Company Treasury: The Company Treasury is tracked 
through its various Company Office boxes. It is not the 
same as the Company Balance. 
• Commander: Family members in an Army box that can 
acquire alliances and deploy. They are not Officers and 
they cannot be exhausted to gain dice in combat. 
• Consequences: See Policy (Track). 
• Deregulation: Deregulation heals the Company and 
adds Firms (miniature Companies) to the game. You 
can vote for deregulation in the 1758 and long 1710 
scenarios. In the 1813 scenario deregulation is already 
active. To vote for deregulation, the Company Standing 
Marker and/or Company Debt marker needs to be on 
one of the spaces marked with lines. If either of them is 
on a space marked with a star, there must be a vote for 
deregulation. 
• Dilemma: A Dilema is a Law with red lines above and 
below its title on its card. It needs to be picked 
immediately by the Prime Minister and addressed. 
• Dividers: 6 red rectangular chits with rounded corners 
that depict a white ornamental line. These are used to 
break the dotted lines between Orders to clarify when 
the Orders were filled to determine whether they can be 
filled again. 
• Dominated Region: Dominated regions are indicated in 
1 of 3 ways: 1) Dome with a flag (when dominated by a 
Sovereign region), 2) Governor Overlay (when 
dominated by the company) or 3) no Dome nor 
Overlay (when dominated by the Company when there 
is a Governor General in play).  
• Empire: A capital region (flag with star) alongside its 
dominated regions (small flags in the same metal as the 
flag with a star) together form an empire. 
• Emergency Loans: Loans taken by the Company or 
Firms when they cannot pay their expenses. If they 
advance the debt marker, then you do not have to pay 
additional expenses for the additional debt. 
• Enterprises: There are two kinds of enterprises, both of 
which are identified by anchor, hat, or gear icons: 1) 
small cards with shipyards, workshops and luxuries, and 
2) large prestige cards that have the same icons in the 
upper right corner. Both are taxed. 
• Expectations: Shorthand for Company Expectations. 
• Expenses: See the Expenses phase. 
• Export Icons: Small white icons depicting a package 
found in Bengal (2), Delhi, Madras and Hyderabad. 
• Extra Action: Additional family actions unlocked 
through laws; only the most recent Extra Action that was 
passed is ever active (and their associated laws are not 
impacted by this).  
• Family Treasury: The money that each player has, also 
referred to as Family Cash. 
• Fitted: Fitted ships have left the shipyard. 
• Foundry: A Prestige Card that awards £1 for newly 
purchased Regiments or Workshops. 
• Game End: The game ends at the end of the turn prior 
to crossing the year of the scenario that you are playing 
(as indicated on the turn tracker printed on the game 
board). 
• Governor General: This Office replaces the Director of 
Trade after the “Governor General” Law has been 
passed. It has an overlay chit to place on the board. 
• Governor Overlay: The oval chits with a thick red 
border that has the icon of a region printed on it. They 
are placed on regions after successful Deploy actions by 
a Commander. 
• Hiring Preference: A blackmail card to force someone 
to hire you. It does not apply in Chairman elections, but 
it does apply during the Military Oversight law. 
• Home Port: Orders with thick borders within Bombay, 
Madras and Bengal, located next to their associated Sea 
zones.  
• Home Region: Bombay, Madras, Bengal. Losing a 
Home Region does not impact actions or ownership of 
associated regions. 
• Imperial Ambitions: Read this as “If there was a 
successful Invasion, move the Elephant to the successful 
Capital’s Region, otherwise move the Elephant to the 
Region on the top of the draw stack.” 
• Foreign Invasion: See Event in India. 
• Lines on Standing/Debt Spaces: In the 1758 and long 
1710 scenarios, the Prime Minister is allowed to call for 
a vote on deregulation, see p. 36. 
• Labor Newspaper: Prestige card; the extra votes come 
with a chosen policy, not the law. 
• Local Alliance: Local alliances are temporary Army 
pieces. Each piece can only be used once on the turn 
they are purchased, and its strength cannot be split 
among more than one purpose. 
• Long 1710 game: Start the game with the 1710 scenario 
and the 1710 setup cards but play all 8 turns or end on 
Company Failure 

--- Page 13 ---
14/16 
 
• Loot: Collected after a successful Deploy action by a 
Commander. 
• Luxury: A small pink Enterprise card with Victory 
Points/Windows. Prestige Cards with a hat icon do not 
count. 
• Making a check: Rolling a certain number of dice to see 
if an action is a success, a failure, or a catastrophic 
failure. Certain success checks come with penalties. 
• Manufacturing Enterprise: Enterprises with the gear 
icon 
• Manufacturing Policy: A Policy with the gear icon. 
• Non-Company-Controlled: Any region in India that has 
a Tower. 
• No Penalty: Used to indicate that there are no negative 
modifiers to an action (e.g., in the Director of Trade’s 
Special Envoy action), even though similar actions do 
have such modifiers (e.g., President’s Trade Action). 
• Office: The positions that family members can hold in 
the game, such as Chairman, Director of Trade, etc. 
Each Office has a card. 
• Officeholder: A family member that holds an Office. 
Excludes Writers/Commanders. 
• Officeholder’s Bonus: See Bonus. 
• Officer: Family members in an Army box that are not 
Commanders. They can be exhausted to gain dice in 
combat. 
• Opportunity Token/Marker: The glass bead that goes 
on your family board to select a Family Action. The 
Lady Glencora Prestige Card can remove it.  
• Passed Law Duration: Passed Laws remain active until 
the end of the game. 
• Passed Law Tokens: The Prime Minister gets a Passed 
Law Token when a law successfully passes. 
• Penalty: Whenever the player receives a negative 
modifier or punishment. Also see “No Penalty”. 
• President’s Bonus: The bonus a President receives for 
each filled order during a Trade. 
• Prestige Cards: The large cards with a red back that go 
into the London Display. 
• Prizes: The estates printed on the left side of the board. 
Note that the top prize does not offer victory points but 
buying it does allow you access to a Prestige Card during 
the London Season. 
• Promise Card: Each family has a set of Promise Cards 
that can be used to make long-term deals. 
• Promise Cube: The Crown comes with 12 red Promise 
Cubes that are used to simulate negotiations. 
• Power: The Power icon looks like the Victory Points 
icon, but it is round instead of a diamond, and it has a 
different mechanic. Power comes from the Power 
Track with the 4 Power Tokens, the Prime Minister 
position, passed law tokens, prestige cards and trophies. 
Players’ Power rankings gain them Victory Points at the 
end of the game. 
• Power Tokens/Track: The hat, gear and anchor on 
enterprises and shares/company logo (heart) on the 
stock exchange will be converted to victory points at the 
end of the game and are used in parliament. 
Enterprises/Company Shares at the top spot are worth 2 
Power, second spot are worth 1 Power, others are worth 
0 Power. 
• Regiments: Regiments are square chits depicting 
soldiers. Also referred to through the Drum icon and 
are placed in an Army Box. Regiments are added by 
Governors, and they can only be removed from play by 
the War Against France law. 
• Region associated with a Presidency: A company-
controlled Region that is associated to the Presidency 
that invaded it as indicated by the region loot token. 
• Repair Ships: You cannot repair ships. 
• Retirement Discount: Certain Spouse Prestige Cards 
(such as Lord Highgate) provide a retirement discount 
of -£1 or -£2 that can be used to purchase future prizes. 
• Rotten Borough: A type of Prestige Card. 
• Share: Usually shorthand for Company Share, indicated 
by family members in Court of Directors. Firms have 
Firm Shares as indicated by family on the Firm Charter 
Board. Family on the stock exchange do not count as 
Shares. 
• Shipyard: A small blue Enterprise card with 
Ships/votes/Bonus Phase income. Prestige Cards with 
an anchor icon do not count. 
• Shipping Enterprises: Enterprises with the anchor icon 
• Shipping Policy: Policy with an anchor icon. 
• Sovereign Region: income There are two types of 
sovereign regions: 1) capital regions with a flag with a 
star, and 2) regions without flags. 
• Standing: Shorthand for Company Standing 
• Stars on Standing/Debt Spaces: In the 1758 and long 
1710 scenarios, the Prime Minister must call for a vote 
on deregulation. 
• Stock Exchange track: The track above the Court of 
Directors on the game board that depicts values from 
£2 - £5, see p. 14. Family members here do not yet 
count as Shares. 
• Social Enterprises: Enterprises with the hat icon. They 
represent social capital, conspicuous consumption, 
wanton flaunting of wealth, keeping up appearances, etc. 
• Social Magazine: Prestige card; the extra votes come 
with a chosen policy, not the law. 

--- Page 14 ---
15/16 
 
• Superintendent of Trade in China: This is an additional 
office that gets added after passing the “Envoy to China” 
Law or after the Director of Trade opens trade with 
China. It adds a special tile to the board. 
• Surviving: Officers not hitting a 6 on the d6 roll after a 
battle. 
• Trophies: Trophy tokens are received for successful 
Deploy actions. 
• Turmoil: See Events in India. 
• Unrest (cubes): Unrest Cubes accumulate in India 
regions whenever Governors fail checks. Each cube 
increases the strength of attacks against the Company, 
and whenever a company region is attacked for any 
reason, all other regions with Unrest attempt a 
Rebellion 
• Vacant Offices box: Whenever an Officeholder is 
removed from office, the corresponding Officeholder 
card is moved to this area on the board (#24). 
• Victory Points: The player with the most victory points 
wins the game. Be careful not to confuse these with 
Power. Whenever victory points are gained or lost, 
immediately adjust the victory point marker. 
• War Against France: A Dilemma that sends Ships 
(including Firm ships), Regiments and Officers (i.e, not 
Commanders) to the supply. 
• Window Tax: Every player must pay £1 for each 
Window on a prize with a family member, and each 
Window on an enterprise. Return them if you cannot 
pay. 
• Workshop: A small yellow Enterprise card with votes, 
Company failure-only Victory Points and Bonus Phase 
income. Prestige Cards with a gear icon do not count. 
BEGINNER STRATEGY NOTES 
• Narrative: This is not so much a game about winning 
and being competitive (although it very much offers 
those kinds of fun) as it is a game about seeing a story 
come together.  
• Luck: The game involves a lot of chance and position 
reversals. To win, you need equal amounts of strategy, 
negotiation, and luck. Make a lot of deals to position 
yourself and do not worry about optimizing die rolls 
much. 
• Company Failure is a big part of the game and crashing 
it when you are in a winning position and can do so is a 
valid strategy. When you find yourself in a situation, the 
bigger question is not “Should I crash the company?”, 
but “Can I crash the company?” 
• Prized Retirements (along with Luxuries and ranking 
high on Power) win the game. To get Retirements and 
Prizes, you need 1) family members in Office and 2) 
cash. 
- Family members that retire from Office come from 
investing in Writers or Shares. 
- Cash is obtained through Dividends (Shares), trade 
(Presidents, Writers), looting regions (Commanders, 
Officers), taxes (Governors), passive bonus (Workshops, 
Shipyards), export (Superintendent of Trade in China) 
and making deals. 
• Cost of Success: The further you get ahead by acquiring 
prizes, the more you will be taxed and have to pay in 
upkeep.  
 
 
 

--- Page 15 ---
16/16 
 
 
Please report any issues or suggestions on BoardGameGeek: https://bit.ly/3TNQU8U 
Official FAQ: https://bit.ly/3TOhXRq 
