
--- Page 0 ---
(If 4+ vacant offices, writer action enlists 2 writers. Opportunity marker would mean 3!) 
If the vote fails, increase company share value (to +/-3 max). PM may vote against. PM doesn’t change hands. 
  
 
 
Before London Season, Vote to Deregulate? Mandatory if a marker is on a star space. PM’s option if on lined space.  
  London Season:            
1. 
Roll for attrition of office holders. 3-4 adds fatigue, 5-6 -> pensioner’s box. Any fatigue cubes already present add 1 to result. Chairman always adds 1. 
2. 
Retire - Starting w chairman (or former) then clockwise, players may pay to retire pensioners and gain the VP (pensioners not retired are returned to player).    
Firm shareholders (not only managers) may retire a family piece from their supply, spending up to the amount next to that firm’s cube on balance track. 
3. 
Prestige cards - Starting with whoever spent the most retiring this turn, and then in order of amount spent, anyone who retired a family piece either takes or 
discards 1 Prestige card from the card row. (Ties in money spent are broken by most windows, including new ones, then PM order) 
4. 
Refresh – Remove any remaining prestige cards and put new cards out. 
Family Phase: 1. Take a family action (Chairman, then clockwise) and move opportunity marker to selected action. If already there, may take action twice. 
Firms (if Deregulation is in play): Players act simultaneously           2. Add shares in waiting. Drop debt marker one for each share created. Slide rest to right. 
1. 
 Investment Phase Options: 
• 
Start or invest in firm – Spend company shares or flip workshops. (Shares created this turn can’t be used. No shares at all if a marker is on a lined space) 
• 
Buy ships - Spend £3 from your firm’s London treasury to fit ships on shipyards paying the bank, or £3 for an active ship from sea (£2 if fatigued) paying 
the Manager of Shipping office treasury. Consent of shipyard owner required in all cases. Place purchased ships on firm’s charter. 
• 
Hostile takeover – if you have consent of majority of shareholders, take over a firm. See manual for steps. 
• 
Merge firms – all involved firms need full consent of every shareholder. See manual for steps. 
2. 
Strategy phase: Firm managers secretly allocate funds to trading, and select sea region to trade in. 
Hiring: In order of vacant office number. Nepotism is OK if all candidates agree. 
Chairman:  May take debt (3 debt unilaterally, more with shareholder majority). Then, must give ALL the money from the company to offices/presidencies. 
Director of Trade:  £1 per die. Roll any number of times. For each successful roll, either open a closed order in a region NOT controlled by the company, OR 
open Trade with China office (hired immediately). When done rolling, may make up to 2 transfers of a single writer or ship, from anywhere to anywhere.  
Governor General (if in play): First, increase company balance by £3 for each company-controlled region. 
Then, may Govern any number of times, until successful, catastrophic failure, or they decide to stop. 
Dice Pool = £1 per die.   
!   For each 6 rolled, add 1 unrest to every company-controlled region   ! 
Success: GG player takes £1 for each company-controlled region. Then, each company-controlled region gives you an action. For each, choose one: 
▪ 
Place a Company ship straight into any sea region, including China if Trade with China has been opened. 
▪ 
Place a Regiment in any army. 
▪ 
Tax - Add £2 to the company balance or to a treasury other than your own. Then, place 1 unrest in a company-controlled region. If you choose this 
option multiple times on your turn, unrest must go in a different region each time. 
Failure: add 1 unrest to each company-controlled region. 
Catastrophic Failure: add 1 unrest to each company-controlled region. Remove Governor General, move card to Vacant Offices box 
 
Manager of Shipping: buy company ships £5, fit ships in shipyards £3, lease extra ships £2, place ships wherever. Must spend down to £2 or less. 
Military Affairs: make up to 2 officer or regiment transfers. Then, assign Officers in Training to armies and check for new commanders (strictly more pieces) 
Presidencies – see flip side 
Superintendent of Trade in China:  Requires ships and company-controlled export icons on map. Make a single check, one die per ship.  
If successful, company gets £4 per company-controlled export icon. Superintendent player gets £1 per company-controlled export icon. 
Bonuses: Workshops pay £1 each. Fitted shipyards pay £1 each. 
Revenue/ Expenses /Expectations/ Dividends: 
First, firms: 
1. 
Expenses - in initiative roll order (windows break ties, then PM order) - £1 per ship PLUS either [£1 per share] or [£ equal to firm’s value], whichever is higher. 
Can’t pay? Optional Emergency investments/Emergency merger. Lower firm value cube by 1 space per emergency investment taken. Any excess £ is lost. 
Emergency merger = other firm must pay their own expenses, then all outstanding by dissolved firm. If no investments or mergers, firm is dissolved. Move  
each share to the debtor’s prison on the Deregulation card. These are worth -1 VP now. Ships return to shipyards. Flip player board back to family side. 
2. 
Optional Dividends - firm may pay dividends to share holders from it’s India treasury (unevenly if a shareholder volunteers and firm manager agrees).  
3. 
Adjust firm dividend cube on company balance track to the total amount of cash paid out this round. (Ignore this step if Firm chose the Hobnob strategy) 
4. 
Move all cash from India treasury to London treasury 
 
1. 
Expenses - Pay £1 per ship (incl. China), officer, regiment, and debt. (Emergency loans required if expenses can’t be paid. Any excess is lost. Adjust standing) 
2. 
Expectations - Check company expectations - company needs that balance minimum – adjust standing one space to left if not met. 
3. 
Dividends - may be paid if Chairman wants. Each shareholder (including Chairman) gets £1. Multiple dividends may be paid out. Must be distributed evenly. 
4. 
Standing - Move company standing to right if total dividend amount paid out this round exceeds current expectations value.  
Events in India: Roll the storm die. Ships in the rolled sea region(s) roll for fatigue. (3-4 fatigued, 5-6 sunk) Then, resolve # of events shown on the storm die. 
Parliament Meets: Prime minister draws up to 3 cards and selects one to vote on. (If Dilemma card drawn, stop drawing. PM must select that law) 
After choosing law, PM moves arm on PM dial clockwise or counterclockwise stopping at next spot matching effect of law selected. PM votes first, then clockwise. PM 
must vote FOR or abstain. PM may open additional rounds of voting if they like. Players who vote AGAINST may not vote FOR in any later voting rounds.  
✓ 
If law passes, PM takes passed law token. Then resolve policy consequences on dial and any immediate law effects. 
 
If law fails, Leader of Opposition becomes PM, and selects an adjacent space on PM dial to move the arm to and resolve immediately. 
Upkeep & Refresh:  
1. 
Pay for family members on prizes. Not paying = family member returned to supply, and player loses that prize’s VP.  
2. 
Extra ships go away, untap votes, writers back to their boxes, remove “filled order” tokens, refresh officers, local alliances go away 

--- Page 1 ---
 
For each Presidency: 
First, any firms sailing in the acting presidency’s sea region must reveal strategy and roll initiative, £1 per die (Ships minus successes) 
President then decides the order in which the Commander, Governor (if in play), and the President will act. (If no Pres, chairman) 
Commander: 
1. First, may request that the President spend money on local alliances. (If no President, not possible) 
2. Then, may Deploy as many times as they want and can afford, as long as a chance of success remains. 
Deploy: choose target region from: a) President’s home region, b) associated region, c) adjacent to associated region 
Dice Pool = [# of officers/regiments/alliances being exhausted] MINUS [tower levels in defending region or empire].  
Before resolving result, roll a death check for each officer used. 6 is death and officer returns to supply. Dead officers receive no loot. 
Success:  do the following in order: 
1. Divvy up loot, £1 by £1, starting with commander, then surviving officers (first preference to same colour 
piece as commander), then regiments (to bank), alliances (to bank), and repeat from commander, until all 
spent. [Loot total = £4 per tower level in target region + loot modifier token if face up]. 
2. Commander takes one trophy token for each level of tower in target region. 
3. Open all orders and remove all unrest. 
4. Create Governor of that region (put governor card in Vacant Offices box and add Governor overlay). 
5. If elephant was on border looking away from region, place in middle. 
Failure: nothing happens. 
Catastrophic Failure: Remove commander, and commander returns half of trophies to supply (rounded up). 
 
Governor (if present):  May Administer as many times as they want 
Administer:  
Dice Pool = Number of dice is indicated on Governor card. Dice are free, but you lose 1 die after each Administer roll. 
Success: Governor gets £1 (£2 if they just failed previous roll) and then can take one of the following three actions: 
▪ 
Build a company ship (takes place over two actions), 1st action = place a company ship on India map next to 
governor. On a later success, you may take this action again to move it from the land to your sea zone. 
▪ 
Tax – take £2 from bank and give to your president, or the company. The first tax action this round causes no 
unrest, but any additional tax actions this round will add 1 unrest to the region. 
▪ 
Create a regiment for your president’s army (remember: Regiments take loot, cost upkeep, and don’t die). 
Failure: add 1 unrest to the region. 
Catastrophic Failure: Add 1 unrest, remove Governor (leave overlay), move Governor card to Vacant Offices box. 
 
President: May Trade any number of times, until successful, catastrophic failure, or they decide to stop. 
If any firms have sailed in this region, the President treats their Trade roll as an initiative roll to determine who trades 
first between President and all competing firms. Ships minus successes. Lowest initiative trades first and gets full order 
values. All others trading in the region still trade, in lowest-to-highest initiative order, but will only get half the value of 
any already-filled orders. (half values are indicated by small number next to order on board) 
 
Firm trading: (in initiative order) 
Fill orders up to the number of the firm’s ships plus one. Cover orders using “filled order” tokens. Gain value (either full 
or half) to the firm’s India treasury. Then, increase the firm’s value marker one space for every £6 earned. 
Trade: President must declare which regions are being targeted for trade 
 
Dice Pool = £1 per die, MINUS 1 die for each region outside of the President’s home region being targeted. 
Success: Fill as many open orders as there are ships in that sea region. Fill with available writers first, then use “filled 
order” tokens. President player gets £1 per order filled. Each writer used to fill an order earns that player £1  
Failure: nothing happens. 
Catastrophic Failure: Remove president, move President card to Vacant Offices box. 
